
# Websockets Documentation
This documentation contains how to connect to the WebSockets hosted by bubblez for getting post and reply data right after it has been posted.

## Discontinued
This websocket version has been discontinued and will be removed on November 30th 2021.  
Please update to a newer version to continue using the bubblez websockets.

## Important
Newer versions use a similar but slightly different way of authenticating.  
It is possible to use both the new and old way to connect to the websocket in this version.  
However you cannot use this way of connecting in the newer versions.

## Connecting
To connect to the WebSocket, you can use one of two ways to connect.  
For live: wss://ws.bubblez.app:23831  
For canary: wss://ws.bubblez.app:23830  
The WebSocket expects all messages that are being sent to be JSON data.
The WebSocket also sends messages as JSON data.
Previously you would receive a response for sending incorrect JSON data, now the connection will be closed, please check [here](https://github.com/ProjectBubblez/documentation/blob/main/docs/websockets/CLOSECODES.md) for close codes.

## Authentication
After connecting to the server you will receive this message:
```JSON
{
    "message": "AUTHENTICATION_REQUIRED"
}
```
When you receive this message the server is ready for you to be authenticated you need to send a message containing the following data and replace "token here" with your token.
```JSON
{
    "message": "SEND_TOKEN",
    "token": "token here"
}
```
After sending that message you should receive this message:
```JSON
{
    "message": "AUTHENTICATED",
    "heartbeatinterval": 40000
}
```
The heartbeatinterval can be different from the documentation, it is expected that you use the hearbeatinterval that the server gave you and not the amount that is listed here.  
Previously you would receive a response for sending an incorrect token, now the connection will be closed, please check [here](https://github.com/ProjectBubblez/documentation/blob/main/docs/websockets/CLOSECODES.md) for close codes.

## Heartbeats
When authenticating you receive a heartbeatinterval.  
The heartbeatinterval is the number of milliseconds between heartbeats.  
There is no need for sending heartbeats early due to ping or other issues that could slow the internet due to heartbeat checking which will be talked about later.  
When you need to send a heartbeat you need to send this data:
```JSON
{
    "message": "HEARTBEAT"
}
```
The WebSocket server will respond with:
```JSON
{
    "message": "HEARTBEAT_ACK"
}
```
If the WebSocket does not respond to heartbeats the connection can be considered zombified and it's recommended to terminate the connection and reconnect.

## Heartbeat checking
The server keeps track of heartbeats to also terminate zombified connections server side.  
You are allowed to not send any heartbeats for 1.5 times the heartbeatinterval.  
This is not recommended but would be possible.  
When you haven't sent a heartbeat in 1.5 times the heartbeatinterval the server will send the following message:
```JSON
{
    "message": "HEARTBEAT_MISSED",
    "heartbeatinterval": 40000
}
```
The heartbeatinterval can be different from the documentation, it is expected that you use the hearbeatinterval that the server gave you and not the amount that is listed here.  
When you receive this message you need to send a heartbeat right away no matter the time you would have left to send another heartbeat.  
The heartbeatinterval is also sent again and you're expected to restart the interval.  
If you fail to send a heartbeat within 2 times the heartbeatinterval the connection will be terminated because it's assumed that the connection has been zombified.

## New message
When a new message has been posted to bubblez a message will be sent containing the following data:
```JSON
{
    "message": "NEW_POST",
    "postdata": {
        
    }
}
```
Inside of postdata you will get the information you would receive from the api/v1/post/get api endpoint (Read the api documentation to see what information will be sent).

## New reply
When a new reply has been posted to bubblez a message will be sent containing the following data:
```JSON
{
    "message": "NEW_REPLY",
    "postdata": {
        
    },
    "replydata": {

    }
}
```
Inside of postdata you will get the information you would receive from the api/v1/post/get api endpoint (Read the api documentation to see what information will be sent).  
Inside of replydata you will get the information you would receive from the postdata and then read the reply from the replies data (api/v1/post/get -> replies -> the reply that has just been posted).

## New devlog
When a new devlog has been posted to bubblez a message will be sent containing the following data:
```JSON
{
    "message": "NEW_DEVLOG",
    "postdata": {
        
    }
}
```
Inside of postdata you will get the information you would receive from the api/v1/blog/latest api endpoint (Read the api documentation to see what information will be sent).

## New like
When someone likes a post a message will be sent containing the following data:
```JSON
{
    "message": "NEW_LIKE",
    "id": 1,
    "type": "post",
    "userdata": {
        
    }
}
```
Inside of userdata you will get the information you would receive from the api/v1/user/get api endpoint without posts and replies (Read the api documentation to see what information will be sent).
The id is the id of the post/reply that was liked.
The type can either be post or reply, if it's post a post was liked and if it's reply a reply was liked.

## New Follower
When someone follows a user a message will be sent containing the following data:
```JSON
{
    "message": "NEW_FOLLOWER",
    "followedid": 1,
    "userdata": {
    
    }
}
```
Inside of userdata you will get the information you would receive from the api/v1/user/get api endpoint without posts and replies (Read the api documentation to see what information will be sent).
the followedid is the uuid of the user that was followed.

## Unfollowed
When someone unfollows a user a message will be sent containing the following data:
```JSON
{
    "message": "UNFOLLOWED",
    "followedid": 1,
    "userdata": {
    
    }
}
```
Inside of userdata you will get the information you would receive from the api/v1/user/get api endpoint without posts and replies (Read the api documentation to see what information will be sent).
the followedid is the uuid of the user that was followed.
  
Go back to the [readme](https://github.com/ProjectBubblez/documentation/blob/main/docs/websockets/README.md)
