
# Version 1 documentation
This documentation contains the data you will receive from the websocket when you have been authenticated.

## New message
You will only receive this message if you posted a message or if you were mentioned (@embed for example) in the message.  
When a new message has been posted to bubblez a message will be sent containing the following data:
```JSON
{
    "message": "NEW_POST",
    "postdata": {
        
    }
}
```
Inside of postdata you will get the information you would receive from the api/v1/post/get api endpoint (Read the api documentation to see what information will be sent).

## New reply
You will only receive this message if you posted the original message, the reply or if you were mentioned in the post or reply.  
When a new reply has been posted to bubblez a message will be sent containing the following data:
```JSON
{
    "message": "NEW_REPLY",
    "postid": 123,
    "replydata": {

    }
}
```
Postid has the id of the post the reply was made to.   
Inside of replydata you will get the information you would receive from the api/v1/post/get endpoint and then read the reply from the replies data (api/v1/post/get -> replies -> the reply that has just been posted).

## New devlog
When a new devlog has been posted to bubblez a message will be sent containing the following data:
```JSON
{
    "message": "NEW_DEVLOG",
    "postdata": {
        
    }
}
```
Inside of postdata you will get the information you would receive from the api/v1/blog/latest api endpoint (Read the api documentation to see what information will be sent).

## New like
You will only receive this message if you posted the original message, the reply or if you were mentioned in the post or reply that was liked.  
When someone likes a post a message will be sent containing the following data:
```JSON
{
    "message": "NEW_LIKE",
    "type": "post",
    "userdata": {
        
    }
}
```
Inside of userdata you will get the information you would receive from the api/v1/user/get api endpoint without posts and replies (Read the api documentation to see what information will be sent).  
The type can either be post or reply, if it's post a post was liked and if it's reply a reply was liked.  
If a post was liked there will be a postdata field which has the information you would receive from the api/v1/post/get api endpoint.  
If a reply was liked there will be a replydata field which has the information you would receive from the api/v1/post/get endpoint and then read the reply from the replies data (api/v1/post/get -> replies -> the reply that was liked).  
If a reply was liked there will also be a postid field which has the id of the post the reply was made to.


## New Follower
You will only receive this message if someone followed you, you will not receive this event when someone else gets followed.  
When someone follows a user a message will be sent containing the following data:
```JSON
{
    "message": "NEW_FOLLOWER",
    "userdata": {
    
    }
}
```
Inside of userdata you will get the information you would receive from the api/v1/user/get api endpoint without posts and replies (Read the api documentation to see what information will be sent).
The followedid is the uuid of the user that was followed.

## Unfollowed
You will only receive this message if someone unfollowed you, you will not receive this event when someone else gets unfollowed.  
When someone unfollows a user a message will be sent containing the following data:
```JSON
{
    "message": "UNFOLLOWED",
    "userdata": {
    
    }
}
```
Inside of userdata you will get the information you would receive from the api/v1/user/get api endpoint without posts and replies (Read the api documentation to see what information will be sent).
the followedid is the uuid of the user that was followed.
  
Go back to the [readme](https://github.com/ProjectBubblez/documentation/blob/main/docs/websockets/README.md)
